Once Upon A Time in Hollywood
which is set in Los Angeles in 1969
is Quentin Tarantino’s latest movie.
It was inspired by the veteran director’s memories when he was 6 years old
prompting some commentators to suggest that it was his most personal movie.
Indeed, Tarantino consistently uses modern classic genre in telling his stories
including western, spaghetti western, neo noir
dark comedy, action, martial art, crime and horror
Often, He concocts them in one film, then colors them with his own style, creating a genre of his own
which was first manifested in his debut, Reservoir Dogs in 1992
when he was 28 years old.
Reservoir Dogs was not merely a heist movie, but rather a new cinematic phenomenon
The Tarantino phenomenon, which relied on nonlinear storytelling
fast-paced firey dialogue
stylized violence colored with humor
and pop culture references and music scores from the 60s and 70’s songs.
But the film that catapulted Tarantino to the pinnacle of Hollywood’s power and international fame was Pulp Fiction
which was directed in 1994
Pulp Fiction is a crime film
in which Tarantino demolished mainstream cinema rules
by using his cinematic style and nonlinear narrative in telling overlapping stories of gangsters
and small-time criminals
The film was an enormous commercial and critical success
It snatched Cannes’ Palm D’or, followed by 7 Oscar nomination and one win
It’s widely considered one of the greatest films ever, has been a source of inspiration to subsequent movies.
In 1997
Tarantino used blacksploitation in making Jackie Brown
Thereafter, he mixed martial art, Western spaghetti and Italian horror genres in Kill Bill 1 & 2.
He continues to use Western in Inglorious Bastards
which is set in WWIIand
and Django Unchained
which deals with slavery in the antebellum South,  and The Hateful Eight
a tale of 8 strangers who battle each other to death.
Tarantino began his career as an actor and screenwriter
In early 90’s, he sold his screenplays, True Romance and Natural Born Killer
to Hollywood studios, and invested the money in making Reservoir Dogs.
Hence, the scripts are always the strongest component in his movies
gaining him numerous awards, including two Oscars
one for Pulp Fiction and the other for Django Unchained.
After completing writing the film script, Tarantino cast some of Hollywood’s biggest stars in it
like Leonardo Dicaprio, who starred in Django Unchained
and Brad Pitt, who starred in Inglorious Bastards.
Both returned to star in Once Upon A Time In Hollywood.
Tarantino’s movies are always underpinned by a battle between good and evil
and end with brutal punishment of the bad guys
In Django Unchained, the slave fights his white owners and drowns them in their own blood.
In Inglorious Basterds
Jewish American soldiers wage war against the Nazis before they burn Hitler and his commanders in a theatre.
and in kill bill
a bride revenged on her husband's team of assassins who after he tried to kill her
And in his last film, Once Upon A Time in Hollywood
evil is personified by the hippy Charles Manson family
who committed brutal murders in 1969 in Los Angeles.
Tarantino’s movies often suffered from a long run
which ranges between 2-3 hours
that's because he writes long screenplays
And when he failed to shorten Kill Bill, which was 4 hours long, he divided it to two volumes
Yet, his movies hardly bore the audience.
The release of one of the 56-year-old actor movies
often ignites a storm of anticipation among his fans and commentator about his next project
This time, the level of anticipation is unprecedented
because his movie, the tenth, will be his last
But it seems that it won’t be his last directing
he will simply move to a new medium: Streaming TV.